involuntary confession
habeas corpus
plea bargaining: the constitutionality of and/or the circumstances of its exercise
retroactivity (of newly announced or newly enacted constitutional or statutory rights)
search and seizure (other than as pertains to vehicles or Crime Control Act)
search and seizure, vehicles
search and seizure, Crime Control Act
contempt of court or congress
self-incrimination (other than as pertains to Miranda or immunity from prosecution)
Miranda warnings
self-incrimination, immunity from prosecution
right to counsel (cf. indigents appointment of counsel or inadequate representation)
cruel and unusual punishment, death penalty (cf. extra legal jury influence, death penalty)
cruel and unusual punishment, non-death penalty (cf. liability, civil rights acts)
line-up
discovery and inspection (in the context of criminal litigation only, otherwise Freedom of Information Act and related federal or state statutes or regulations)
double jeopardy
ex post facto (state)
extra-legal jury influences: miscellaneous
extra-legal jury influences: prejudicial statements or evidence
extra-legal jury influences: contact with jurors outside courtroom
extra-legal jury influences: jury instructions (not necessarily in criminal cases)
extra-legal jury influences: voir dire (not necessarily a criminal case)
extra-legal jury influences: prison garb or appearance
extra-legal jury influences: jurors and death penalty (cf. cruel and unusual punishment)
extra-legal jury influences: pretrial publicity
confrontation (right to confront accuser, call and cross-examine witnesses)
subconstitutional fair procedure: confession of error
subconstitutional fair procedure: conspiracy (cf. Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure: conspiracy)
subconstitutional fair procedure: entrapment
subconstitutional fair procedure: exhaustion of remedies
subconstitutional fair procedure: fugitive from justice
subconstitutional fair procedure: presentation, admissibility, or sufficiency of evidence (not necessarily a criminal case)
subconstitutional fair procedure: stay of execution
subconstitutional fair procedure: timeliness
subconstitutional fair procedure: miscellaneous
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
statutory construction of criminal laws: assault
statutory construction of criminal laws: bank robbery
statutory construction of criminal laws: conspiracy (cf. subconstitutional fair procedure: conspiracy)
statutory construction of criminal laws: escape from custody
statutory construction of criminal laws: false statements (cf. statutory construction of criminal laws: perjury)
statutory construction of criminal laws: financial (other than in fraud or internal revenue)
statutory construction of criminal laws: firearms
statutory construction of criminal laws: fraud
statutory construction of criminal laws: gambling
statutory construction of criminal laws: Hobbs Act; i.e., 18 USC 1951
statutory construction of criminal laws: immigration (cf. immigration and naturalization)
statutory construction of criminal laws: internal revenue (cf. Federal Taxation)
statutory construction of criminal laws: Mann Act and related statutes
statutory construction of criminal laws: narcotics includes regulation and prohibition of alcohol
statutory construction of criminal laws: obstruction of justice
statutory construction of criminal laws: perjury (other than as pertains to statutory construction of criminal laws: false statements)
statutory construction of criminal laws: Travel Act, 18 USC 1952
statutory construction of criminal laws: war crimes
statutory construction of criminal laws: sentencing guidelines
statutory construction of criminal laws: miscellaneous
jury trial (right to, as distinct from extra-legal jury influences)
speedy trial
miscellaneous criminal procedure (cf. due process, prisoners' rights, comity: criminal procedure)
voting
Voting Rights Act of 1965, plus amendments
ballot access (of candidates and political parties)
desegregation (other than as pertains to school desegregation, employment discrimination, and affirmative action)
desegregation, schools
employment discrimination: on basis of race, age, religion, illegitimacy, national origin, or working conditions.
affirmative action
slavery or indenture
sit-in demonstrations (protests against racial discrimination in places of public accommodation)
reapportionment: other than plans governed by the Voting Rights Act
debtors' rights
deportation (cf. immigration and naturalization)
employability of aliens (cf. immigration and naturalization)
sex discrimination (excluding sex discrimination in employment)
sex discrimination in employment (cf. sex discrimination)
Indians (other than pertains to state jurisdiction over)
Indians, state jurisdiction over
juveniles (cf. rights of illegitimates)
poverty law, constitutional
poverty law, statutory: welfare benefits, typically under some Social Security Act provision.
illegitimates, rights of (cf. juveniles): typically inheritance and survivor's benefits, and paternity suits
handicapped, rights of: under Rehabilitation, Americans with Disabilities Act, and related statutes
residency requirements: durational, plus discrimination against nonresidents
military: draftee, or person subject to induction
military: active duty
military: veteran
immigration and naturalization: permanent residence
immigration and naturalization: citizenship
immigration and naturalization: loss of citizenship, denaturalization
immigration and naturalization: access to public education
immigration and naturalization: welfare benefits
immigration and naturalization: miscellaneous
indigents: appointment of counsel (cf. right to counsel)
indigents: inadequate representation by counsel (cf. right to counsel)
indigents: payment of fine
indigents: costs or filing fees
indigents: U.S. Supreme Court docketing fee
indigents: transcript
indigents: assistance of psychiatrist
indigents: miscellaneous
liability, civil rights acts (cf. liability, governmental and liability, nongovernmental; cruel and unusual punishment, non-death penalty)
miscellaneous civil rights (cf. comity: civil rights)
First Amendment, miscellaneous (cf. comity: First Amendment)
commercial speech, excluding attorneys
libel, defamation: defamation of public officials and public and private persons
libel, privacy: true and false light invasions of privacy
legislative investigations: concerning internal security only
federal or state internal security legislation: Smith, Internal Security, and related federal statutes
loyalty oath or non-Communist affidavit (other than bar applicants, government employees, political party, or teacher)
loyalty oath: bar applicants (cf. admission to bar, state or federal or U.S. Supreme Court)
loyalty oath: government employees
loyalty oath: political party
loyalty oath: teachers
security risks: denial of benefits or dismissal of employees for reasons other than failure to meet loyalty oath requirements
conscientious objectors (cf. military draftee or military active duty) to military service
campaign spending (cf. governmental corruption):
protest demonstrations (other than as pertains to sit-in demonstrations): demonstrations and other forms of protest based on First Amendment guarantees
free exercise of religion
establishment of religion (other than as pertains to parochiaid:)
parochiaid: government aid to religious schools, or religious requirements in public schools
obscenity, state (cf. comity: privacy): including the regulation of sexually explicit material under the 21st Amendment
obscenity, federal
due process: miscellaneous (cf. loyalty oath), the residual code
due process: hearing or notice (other than as pertains to government employees or prisoners' rights)
due process: hearing, government employees
due process: prisoners' rights and defendants' rights
due process: impartial decision maker
due process: jurisdiction (jurisdiction over non-resident litigants)
due process: takings clause, or other non-constitutional governmental taking of property
privacy (cf. libel, comity: privacy)
abortion: including contraceptives
right to die
Freedom of Information Act and related federal or state statutes or regulations
attorneys' and governmental employees' or officials' fees or compensation or licenses
commercial speech, attorneys (cf. commercial speech)
admission to a state or federal bar, disbarment, and attorney discipline (cf. loyalty oath: bar applicants)
admission to, or disbarment from, Bar of the U.S. Supreme Court
arbitration (in the context of labor-management or employer-employee relations) (cf. arbitration)
union antitrust: legality of anticompetitive union activity
union or closed shop: includes agency shop litigation
Fair Labor Standards Act
Occupational Safety and Health Act
union-union member dispute (except as pertains to union or closed shop)
labor-management disputes: bargaining
labor-management disputes: employee discharge
labor-management disputes: distribution of union literature
labor-management disputes: representative election
labor-management disputes: antistrike injunction
labor-management disputes: jurisdictional dispute
labor-management disputes: right to organize
labor-management disputes: picketing
labor-management disputes: secondary activity
labor-management disputes: no-strike clause
labor-management disputes: union representatives
labor-management disputes: union trust funds (cf. ERISA)
labor-management disputes: working conditions
labor-management disputes: miscellaneous dispute
miscellaneous union
antitrust (except in the context of mergers and union antitrust)
mergers
bankruptcy (except in the context of priority of federal fiscal claims)
sufficiency of evidence: typically in the context of a jury's determination of compensation for injury or death
election of remedies: legal remedies available to injured persons or things
liability, governmental: tort or contract actions by or against government or governmental officials other than defense of criminal actions brought under a civil rights action.
liability, other than as in sufficiency of evidence, election of remedies, punitive damages
liability, punitive damages
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (cf. union trust funds)
state or local government tax
state and territorial land claims
state or local government regulation, especially of business (cf. federal pre-emption of state court jurisdiction, federal pre-emption of state legislation or regulation)
federal or state regulation of securities
natural resources - environmental protection (cf. national supremacy: natural resources, national supremacy: pollution)
corruption, governmental or governmental regulation of other than as in campaign spending
zoning: constitutionality of such ordinances, or restrictions on owners' or lessors' use of real property
arbitration (other than as pertains to labor-management or employer-employee relations (cf. union arbitration)
federal or state consumer protection: typically under the Truth in Lending; Food, Drug and Cosmetic; and Consumer Protection Credit Acts
patents and copyrights: patent
patents and copyrights: copyright
patents and copyrights: trademark
patents and copyrights: patentability of computer processes
federal or state regulation of transportation regulation: railroad
federal and some few state regulations of transportation regulation: boat
federal and some few state regulation of transportation regulation:truck, or motor carrier
federal and some few state regulation of transportation regulation: pipeline (cf. federal public utilities regulation: gas pipeline)
federal and some few state regulation of transportation regulation: airline
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: electric power
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: nuclear power
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: oil producer
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: gas producer
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: gas pipeline (cf. federal transportation regulation: pipeline)
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: radio and television (cf. cable television)
federal and some few state regulation of public utilities regulation: cable television (cf. radio and television)
federal and some few state regulations of public utilities regulation: telephone or telegraph company
miscellaneous economic regulation
comity: civil rights
comity: criminal procedure
comity: First Amendment
comity: habeas corpus
comity: military
comity: obscenity
comity: privacy
comity: miscellaneous
comity primarily removal cases, civil procedure (cf. comity, criminal and First Amendment); deference to foreign judicial tribunals
assessment of costs or damages: as part of a court order
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure including Supreme Court Rules, application of the Federal Rules of Evidence, Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in civil litigation, Circuit Court Rules, and state rules and admiralty rules
judicial review of administrative agency's or administrative official's actions and procedures
mootness (cf. standing to sue: live dispute)
venue
no merits: writ improvidently granted
no merits: dismissed or affirmed for want of a substantial or properly presented federal question, or a nonsuit
no merits: dismissed or affirmed for want of jurisdiction (cf. judicial administration: Supreme Court jurisdiction or authority on appeal from federal district courts or courts of appeals)
no merits: adequate non-federal grounds for decision
no merits: remand to determine basis of state or federal court decision (cf. judicial administration: state law)
no merits: miscellaneous
standing to sue: adversary parties
standing to sue: direct injury
standing to sue: legal injury
standing to sue: personal injury
standing to sue: justiciable question
standing to sue: live dispute
standing to sue: parens patriae standing
standing to sue: statutory standing
standing to sue: private or implied cause of action
standing to sue: taxpayer's suit
standing to sue: miscellaneous
judicial administration: jurisdiction or authority of federal district courts or territorial courts
judicial administration: jurisdiction or authority of federal courts of appeals
judicial administration: Supreme Court jurisdiction or authority on appeal or writ of error, from federal district courts or courts of appeals (cf. 753)
judicial administration: Supreme Court jurisdiction or authority on appeal or writ of error, from highest state court
judicial administration: jurisdiction or authority of the Court of Claims
judicial administration: Supreme Court's original jurisdiction
judicial administration: review of non-final order
judicial administration: change in state law (cf. no merits: remand to determine basis of state court decision)
judicial administration: federal question (cf. no merits: dismissed for want of a substantial or properly presented federal question)
judicial administration: ancillary or pendent jurisdiction
judicial administration: extraordinary relief (e.g., mandamus, injunction)
judicial administration: certification (cf. objection to reason for denial of certiorari or appeal)
judicial administration: resolution of circuit conflict, or conflict between or among other courts
judicial administration: objection to reason for denial of certiorari or appeal
judicial administration: collateral estoppel or res judicata
judicial administration: interpleader
judicial administration: untimely filing
judicial administration: Act of State doctrine
judicial administration: miscellaneous
Supreme Court's certiorari, writ of error, or appeals jurisdiction
miscellaneous judicial power, especially diversity jurisdiction
federal-state ownership dispute (cf. Submerged Lands Act)
federal pre-emption of state court jurisdiction
federal pre-emption of state legislation or regulation. cf. state regulation of business. rarely involves union activity. Does not involve constitutional interpretation unless the Court says it does.
Submerged Lands Act (cf. federal-state ownership dispute)
national supremacy: commodities
national supremacy: intergovernmental tax immunity
national supremacy: marital and family relationships and property, including obligation of child support
national supremacy: natural resources (cf. natural resources - environmental protection)
national supremacy: pollution, air or water (cf. natural resources - environmental protection)
national supremacy: public utilities (cf. federal public utilities regulation)
national supremacy: state tax (cf. state tax)
national supremacy: miscellaneous
miscellaneous federalism
boundary dispute between states
non-real property dispute between states
miscellaneous interstate relations conflict
incorporation of foreign territories
federal taxation, typically under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
federal taxation of gifts, personal, business, or professional expenses
priority of federal fiscal claims: over those of the states or private entities
miscellaneous federal taxation (cf. national supremacy: state tax)
legislative veto
executive authority vis-a-vis congress or the states
miscellaneous
real property
personal property
contracts
evidence
civil procedure
torts
wills and trusts
commercial transactions